[[ref.webui.systems.ssm.overview]]
= System Set Manager Overview

This page contains links to most SSM option tabs with short explanations.

image::systems_ssm_overview.png[scaledwidth=80%]

[[ref.webui.systems.ssm.systems]]
== SSM Systems

List of selected systems.


image::systems_ssm_list_systems.png[scaledwidth=80%]




[[ref.webui.systems.ssm.patches]]
==  SSM Patches

List of patch updates applicable to the current system set.


image::systems_ssm_patches.png[scaledwidth=80%]


Click the number in the Systems column to see to which systems in the System
Set Manager a patch applies.  To apply updates, select the patches and click
the btn:[Apply Patches] button.



[[ref.webui.systems.ssm.packages]]
== SSM Packages

Click the number in the Systems column to see the systems in the System Set
Manager to which a package applies.  Modify packages on the system via the
following subtabs.


image::systems_ssm_packages_overview.png[scaledwidth=80%]



[[s4-sm-ssm-packages-install]]
=== SSM Packages - Install

This list includes all channels to which systems in the set are subscribed.
A package is only installed on a system if the system is subscribed to the
channel providing the package.


image::systems_ssm_install.png[scaledwidth=80%]


Click the channel name and select the packages from the list.  Then click
the btn:[Install Packages] button.



[[s4-sm-ssm-packages-remove]]
=== SSM Packages - Remove

A list of all the packages installed on the selected systems that might be
removed.


image::systems_ssm_remove.png[scaledwidth=80%]


Multiple versions appear if systems in the System Set Manager have more than
one version installed.  Select the packages to be deleted, then click the
btn:[Remove Packages] button.



[[s4-sm-ssm-packages-upgrade]]
=== SSM Packages - Upgrade

A list of all the packages installed on the selected systems that might be
upgraded.


image::systems_ssm_upgrade.png[scaledwidth=80%]


Systems must be subscribed to a channel providing the packages to be
upgraded.  If multiple versions of a package are available, note that your
system will be upgraded to the latest version.  Select the packages to be
upgraded, then click the btn:[Upgrade Packages] button.



[[s3-sm-ssm-verify]]
=== SSM Packages - Verify

A list of all installed packages whose contents, file checksum, and other
details may be verified.


image::systems_ssm_verify.png[scaledwidth=80%]


At the next check in, the verify event issues the command [command]``rpm
--verify`` for the specified package.  If there are any discrepancies, they
are displayed in the System Details page for each system.

Select the check box next to all packages to be verified, then click the
btn:[Verify Packages] button.  On the next page, select a date and time for
the verification, then click the btn:[Schedule Verifications] button.



[[ref.webui.systems.ssm.groups]]
== SSM Groups

Tools to create groups and manage system memberships.


image::systems_ssm_groups.png[scaledwidth=80%]


These functions are limited to {productname} Administrators and System Group
Administrators.  To add a new group, click [guimenu]``Create Group`` on the
top-right corner.  In the next page, type the group name and description in
the respective fields and click the btn:[Create Group] button.  To add or
remove selected systems in any of the system groups, toggle the appropriate
radio buttons and click the btn:[Alter Membership] button.



[[ref.webui.systems.ssm.channels]]
== SSM Channels

As a Channel Administrator, you may change the base channels your systems
are subscribed to.

.Changing the Channels Is Now an Action
[NOTE]
====
Since the 3.1 maintenance update (2018) changing the channels is an action
that can be scheduled like any other action.  Earlier channel changes were
applied immediately.
====


Manage channel associations through the following wizard procedure:

[guimenu]``Base Channel Alteration`` (Page 1)::
Valid channels are either channels created by your organization, or the
vendor's default base channel for your operating system version and
processor type.  Systems will be unsubscribed from all channels, and
subscribed to their new base channels.
+

.Changing Base Channel
WARNING: This operation can have a dramatic effect on the packages and patches
available to the systems.  Use with caution.
+

image::systems_ssm_base_channels.png[scaledwidth=80%]
+
To change the base channel, select the new one from the [guimenu]``Desired
base Channel`` and confirm the action.
+
On the this wizard page you see the [guimenu]``Current base Channel`` and
how many [guimenu]``Systems`` are subscribed to it.  Click the number link
in the [guimenu]``Systems`` column to see which systems are actually
selected.
+
To change the base channel subscription select the [guimenu]``Desired base
Channel`` from the selection box.  Then click btn:[Next] in the lower left
corner.

[guimenu]``Child Channels`` (Page 2)::
The [guimenu]``Child Channels`` page allows you to subscribe and unsubscribe
individual child channels related to its parent or base channel.  Systems
must subscribe to a base channel before subscribing to a child channel.  If
you enable btn:[with recommended], recommended child channels are
automatically selected for subscription.  The handling of required channels
is currently not implemented for system set manager.
+

image::systems_ssm_child_subscriptions.png[scaledwidth=80%]
+

Change the child channel subscription on this page.  Then click btn:[Next]
in the lower left corner.

[guimenu]``Channel Changes Overview`` (Page 3)::
Schedule when the channel changes should take place the earliest.  Then
click btn:[Confirm] in the lower left corner.

[guimenu]``Channel Changes Actions`` (Page 4)::
See the scheduled change actions.



[[ref.webui.systems.ssm.config]]
== SSM Configuration

Like in the menu:System Details[Channels > Configuration] tab, the subtabs
here can be used to subscribe the selected systems to configuration channels
and deploy and compare the configuration files on the systems.  The channels
are created in the [guimenu]``Manage Config Channels`` interface within the
menu:Main Menu[Software] category.  For channel creation instructions, see
xref:reference:configuration/config-channels.adoc[].

To manage the configuration of a system, install the latest
[path]``mgr-cfg*`` packages.  For instructions on enabling and disabling
scheduled actions for a system, see
xref:reference:configuration/config-menu.adoc#ref.webui.config.preparing[Preparing
Systems for Configuration Management].



[[ref.webui.systems.ssm.config.deploy]]
=== SSM Configuration - Deploy Files

Use this subtab to distribute configuration files from your central
repository on {productname} to each of the selected systems.


image::systems_ssm_config_deploy_files.png[scaledwidth=80%]


The table lists the configuration files associated with any of the selected
systems.  Clicking its system count displays the systems already subscribed
to the file.

To subscribe the selected systems to the available configuration files,
select the check box for each wanted file.  When done, click btn:[Deploy
Configuration] and schedule the action.  Note that the latest versions of
the files, at the time of scheduling, are deployed.  Newer versions created
after scheduling are disregarded.



[[ref.webui.systems.ssm.config.verify]]
=== SSM Configuration - Compare Files

Use this subtab to validate configuration files on the selected systems
against copies in your central repository on {productname}.


image::systems_ssm_config_compare_files.png[scaledwidth=80%]


The table lists the configuration files associated with any of the selected
systems.  Clicking a file's system count displays the systems already
subscribed to the file.

To compare the configuration files deployed on the systems with those in
{productname}, select the check box for each file to be validated.  Then
click menu:Analyze Differences[Schedule File Comparison].  The comparisons
for each system will not complete until each system checks in to
{productname}.  When each comparison is complete, any differences between
the files will be accessible from each system's events page.

Note that the latest versions of the files, at the time of scheduling, are
compared.  Newer versions created after scheduling are disregarded.  Find
the results in the main menu:Main Menu[Schedule] category or within the
menu:System Details[Events] tab.



[[ref.webui.systems.ssm.config.subs]]
=== SSM Configuration - Subscribe to Channels

Subscribe systems to configuration channels, and in a second step rank these
channels according to the order of preference.  This tab is available only
to {productname} Administrators and Configuration Administrators.


image::systems_ssm_config_subscribe_to_channels.png[scaledwidth=80%]



. Select channels for subscription by activating the check box. When done,
  confirm with btn:[Continue].
. In the second step, rank the channels with the arrow-up or arrow-down
  symbols.
+
Then decide how the channels are applied to the selected systems.  The three
buttons below the channels reflect your options.  Clicking btn:[Subscribe
with Highest Priority] places all the ranked channels before any other
channels to which the selected systems are currently subscribed.  Clicking
btn:[Subscribe With Lowest Priority] places the ranked channels after those
channels to which the selected systems are currently subscribed.  Clicking
btn:[Replace Existing Subscriptions] removes any existing association and
creates new ones with the ranked channels, leaving every system with the
same configuration channels in the same order.
+
.Confliction Ranks
NOTE: In the first two cases, if any of the newly ranked configuration channels
are already in a system's existing configuration channel list, the duplicate
channel is removed and replaced according to the new rank, effectively
reordering the system's existing channels.  When such conflicts exist, you
are presented with a confirmation page to ensure the intended action is
correct.  When the change has taken place, a message appears at the top of
the page indicating the update was successful.
+

Then, click btn:[Apply Subscriptions].

Channels are accessed in the order of their rank.  Your local configuration
channel always overrides all other channels.



[[ref.webui.systems.ssm.config.unsubs]]
=== SSM Configuration - Unsubscribe from Channels

Administrators may unsubscribe systems from configuration channels by
clicking the check box next to the channel name and clicking the
btn:[Unsubscribe Systems] button.


image::systems_ssm_config_unsubscribe_from_channels.png[scaledwidth=80%]



[[ref.webui.systems.ssm.config.enable]]
=== SSM Configuration - Enable Configuration

Registered systems without configuration management preparation will appear
here in a list.

image::systems_ssm_config_enable_config.png[]

Administrators may enable configuration management by clicking the
btn:[Enable SUSE Manager Configuration Management] button.  You can also
schedule the action by adjusting the [guimenu]``Schedule no sooner than``
date and time setting using the drop-down box, then clicking btn:[Enable
SUSE Manager Configuration Management].

Then the systems will get subscribed to the required {productname} tools
channel and required [package]#mgr-cfg*# packages will get installed.



[[ref.webui.systems.ssm.provision]]
== SSM Provisioning

Set the options for provisioning systems via the following subtabs.



[[ref.webui.systems.ssm.provision_autoinst]]
=== SSM Provisioning - Autoinstallation


Use this subtab to reinstall clients.


image::systems_ssm_autoinstallation.png[scaledwidth=80%]


To schedule autoinstallations for these systems, select a distribution.  The
autoinstallation profile used for each system in the set is determined via
the [guimenu]``Autoinstallable Type`` radio buttons.

Choose [guimenu]``Select autoinstallation profile`` to apply the same
profile to all systems in the set.  This is the default option.  You will
see a list of available profiles to select from when you click
btn:[Continue].

Choose [guimenu]``Autoinstall by IP Address`` to apply different
autoinstallation profiles to different systems in the set, by IP address.
To do so, at least two autoinstallation profiles must be configured with
associated IP ranges.

If you use [guimenu]``Autoinstall by IP Address``, {productname} will
automatically pick a profile for each system so that the system's IP address
will be in one of the IP ranges specified in the profile itself.  If such a
profile cannot be found, {productname} will look for an organization default
profile and apply that instead.  If no matching IP ranges nor organization
default profiles can be found, no autoinstallation will be performed on the
system.  You will be notified on the next page if that happens.

To use Cobbler system records for autoinstallation, select [guimenu]``Create
PXE Installation Configuration``.  With PXE boot, you cannot only reinstall
clients, but automatically install machines that do not have an operating
system installed yet.  {productname} and its network must be properly
configured to enable boot using PXE.  For more information on Cobbler and
{kickstart} templates, see xref:client-configuration:cobbler.adoc[].


[NOTE]
====
If a system set contains bare-metal systems and installed clients, only
features working for systems without an operating system installed will be
available.  Full features will be enabled again when all bare-metal systems
are removed from the set.
====


If any of the systems connect to {productname} via a proxy server, choose
either the [guimenu]``Preserve Existing Configuration`` radio button or the
[guimenu]``Use Proxy`` radio button.  If you choose to autoinstall through a
proxy server, select from the available proxies listed in the drop-down box
beside the [guimenu]``Use Proxy`` radio button.  All of the selected systems
will autoinstall via the selected proxy.  Click the btn:[Schedule
Autoinstall] button to confirm your selections.  When the autoinstallations
for the selected systems are successfully scheduled, you will return to the
[guimenu]``System Set Manager`` page.



[[ref.webui.systems.ssm.provision.tag]]
=== SSM Provisioning - Tag Systems

Use this subtab to add meaningful descriptions to the most recent snapshots
of your selected systems.


image::systems_ssm_tag_systems.png[scaledwidth=80%]


To tag the most recent system snapshots, enter a descriptive term in the
[guimenu]``Tag name`` field and click the btn:[Tag Current Snapshots]
button.



[[ref.webui.systems.ssm.provision.roll]]
=== SSM Provisioning - Rollback

Use this subtab to rollback selected systems to previous snapshots marked
with a tag.


image::systems_ssm_rollback.png[scaledwidth=80%]


Click the tag name, verify the systems to be reverted, and click the
btn:[Rollback Systems] button.



[[ref.webui.systems.ssm.provision.remote]]
=== SSM Provisioning - Remote Command

Use this subtab to issue remote commands.


image::systems_ssm_remote_command.png[scaledwidth=80%]


First create a [path]``run`` file on the client systems to allow this
function to operate.  For instructions, see
xref:reference:systems/system-details/sd-remote-command.adoc[].  Then
identify a specific user, group, timeout period, and the script to run.
Select a date and time to execute the command and click btn:[Schedule].



[[ref.webui.systems.ssm.provision.pm_config]]
=== SSM Provisioning - Power Management Configuration

image::systems_ssm_power_management_config.png[scaledwidth=80%]



[[ref.webui.systems.ssm.provision.pm_op]]
=== SSM Provisioning - Power Management Operation


image::systems_ssm_power_management_operations.png[scaledwidth=80%]



[[ref.webui.systems.ssm.audit]]
== SSM Audit


System sets can be scheduled for XCCDF scans; XCCDF stands for "`The
Extensible Configuration Checklist Description Format`".


image::systems_ssm_audit.png[scaledwidth=80%]


Enter the command and command line arguments, and the path to the XCCDF
document.  Then schedule the scan.  All target systems are listed below with
a flag whether they support OpenSCAP scans.  For more details on OpenSCAP
and audits, see xref:reference:audit/audit-menu.adoc[].



[[ref.webui.systems.ssm.misc]]
== SSM - Misc

On the [guimenu]``Misc`` page, you can modify [guimenu]``Custom System
Information``.  Click [guimenu]``Set a custom value for selected systems``,
then the name of a key.  Enter values for all selected systems, then click
the btn:[Set Values] button.  To remove values for all selected systems,
click [guimenu]``Remove a custom value from selected systems``, then the
name of the key.  Click the btn:[Remove Values] button to delete.

Set [guimenu]``System Preferences`` via the respective radio buttons.



[[s4-sm-ssm-misc-updates-hw]]
=== SSM Misc - Hardware

Click the [guimenu]``Hardware`` subtab to schedule a hardware profile
refresh.  Click btn:[Confirm Refresh].


image::systems_ssm_misc_hardware_refresh.png[scaledwidth=80%]




[[s4-sm-ssm-misc-updates-sw]]
=== SSM Misc - Software

Click the [guimenu]``Software`` subtab, then the btn:[Confirm Refresh]
button to schedule a package profile update of the selected systems.


image::systems_ssm_misc_software_refresh.png[scaledwidth=80%]




[[s4-sm-ssm-misc-migrate]]
=== SSM Misc - Migrate

Click the [guimenu]``Migrate`` subtab to move selected systems to a selected
organization.


image::systems_ssm_misc_migrate_systems.png[scaledwidth=80%]




[[s4-sm-ssm-misc-lock]]
=== SSM Misc - Lock/Unlock

Select the [guimenu]``Lock/Unlock`` subtab to select systems to be excluded
from package updates.


image::systems_ssm_misc_lock_unlock.png[scaledwidth=80%]


Enter a [guimenu]``Lock reason`` in the text box and click the btn:[Lock]
button.  Already locked systems can be unlocked on this page.  Select them
and click btn:[Unlock].



[[s4-sm-ssm-misc-delete]]
=== SSM Misc - Delete

Click the [guimenu]``Delete`` subtab, to remove systems by deleting their
system profiles.  Click the btn:[Confirm Deletion] button to remove the
selected profiles permanently.


image::systems_ssm_misc_delete_confirm.png[scaledwidth=80%]



[[s4-sm-ssm-misc-reboot]]
=== SSM Misc - Reboot

Select the appropriate systems, then click the [guimenu]``Reboot Systems``
link to select these systems for reboot.

For information about how to cancel a reboot action, see
xref:reference:schedule/pending-actions.adoc[].
